.TH libpbm 3
.SH NAME
HORATIO - libraries to support vision applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.de Ss
.sp
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Se
.fi
.ft P
.sp
..
.Ss
#include <horatio/global.h>
#include <horatio/pipe.h>
#include <horatio/list.h>
#include <horatio/math.h>
#include <horatio/image.h>
#include <horatio/graphics.h>
#include <horatio/improc.h>
#include <horatio/process.h>
#include <horatio/tool.h>
cc ... libhoratio.a
.Se
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Horatio
vision system comprises a set of libraries written in ANSI C for
Sun-3, Sparc and SIG workstations (using gcc), PC's, and transputers
(using Inmos C).
The Sun and SIG libraries will typically be used to support an X-windows based
image processing application, examples of which are provided, but
only two of the higher level libraries are X-specific.
.SH LIBRARIES
.SS GLOBAL
Contains definitions and functions used by all other libraries.
This comprises modules for printing messages to arbitrary windows,
handling errors, a stack-based memory allocation, boolean array manipulation,
a ring-buffer module for real-time transputer applications,
and miscellaneous extensions to the transputer C library.
.SS PIPE
Comprises pipeline control functions, which allow the creation
of groups of transputer pipelines in which concurrency of I/O and
processing is performed automatically and dynamic re-initialization
enabled.
.SS LIST
Supports use of singly and doubly linked lists of arbitrary
C objects, association lists to label every object in a list with
a unique identifier, and channel/stream I/O of singly-linked lists.
The list is a widely used construction in Horatio.
.SS MATH
Contains low-level maths functions. At present this includes a set of
matrix/vector functions, a Kalman filter module and various maths
functions. Also included is a variable state dimension filter (VSDF) module.
.SS IMAGE
Contains low-level image and sub-image definitions and functions.
The functions allow allocation, freeing, conversion between types,
simple arithmetical pixel operations and comparison of size and type.
Also included are channel, stream and file I/O functions for images
(channel functions for transputer only).
Image file formats currently accepted are MIT, IFF and PGM,
with input images being optionally compressed (Gnu or UNIX compression).
.SS GRAPHICS
Supports the display of images and other primitives on one of an
arbitrary number of X-windows canvases in an image-centred coordinate frame.
It also contains functions to set up the colourmap, handle mouse events
in an easy-to use manner, print text on an X text window, and to store and
re-display the contents of a canvas.
.SS IMPROC
An image processing library which contains source for several low-level
tools: edge/corner detection, normal image flow, grey-level image segmentation
and image correlation. Feature trajectories are supported in a way that allows
mixing of different kinds of features in the same trajectory map, and example
corner and line segment temporal matching algorithms are provided.
Also included are display functions for the results.
.SS PROCESS
contains functions for setting up and using virtual image processing
pipelines. This allows algorithms to be built on lower-level algorithms
easily, so that alternatives at any level can be quickly tested and compared.
.SS TOOL
Contains high-level X-windows tools for creation of Horatio-based
applications. Included are functions dealing with initial setup of
Horatio windows, creating popup panels and reading parameters.
There are also special purpose display modules for interactively
showing a sequence of arbitrary objects, dynamically drawing the
value of a variable (a rolling graph) and an interactive tool
for displaying 3D objects (currently points, line segments and texture-mapped
facets).

The
.B GRAPHICS,
.B IMPROC,
.B PROCESS
and
.B TOOL
libraries are for Sun only, while the
.B PIPE
library is only for transputers.
Only the
.B GRAPHICS
and
.B TOOL
libraries are X-specific.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'DOCDIR/horatio.dvi 'u
\fIDOCDIR\fR/horatio.dvi	Documentation for the libraries.
.sp
.I DOCDIR
will usually be
.B /usr/local/doc .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR horatio(1)
