.TH HORATIO 1L \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
horatio \- image sequence processing tool for X-windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B horatio
[\-b\fIbase-name\fR] [\-n\fInumber-of-canvases\fR]
         [\-s\fIcanvas-size\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B horatio
is an interactive X-windows image sequence processing tool.
At present it contains a Canny edge detector, the Plessey and Smith
corner detectors, a corner matcher,
an normal image flow algorithm, a correlation
image matcher and a grey-level segmentation algorithm.
The image files must be in MIT, IFF or PGM format, and must have one of
the standard forms \fIbase-name.xxx.suffix\fP or \fIbase-namexx.suffix\fP
where \fIbase-name\fP is the file
base name displayed in the editable window at top-right (see the
.I \-b
option below), \fIxxx\fP and \fIxx\fP are three/two digit positive decimal
integers, starting with \fI000/00\fP, and \fIsuffix\fP is one of
.I .mit
.I .iff
.I .pgm
ir
.I .i
Suffices
.I .mit
and
.I .i
indicate MIT format files,
.I .iff
indicates IFF files, and
.I .pgm
indicates PGM files. Extra
.I .gz
or
.I .z
suffices indicate GNU compression, while
.I .Z
indicates UNIX compression. Both are handled by
.B horatio.
The operation of the command buttons (using the left mouse button)
is as follows. The "Movie" button displays the whole sequence repeated ten
times in the first canvas (see the
.I \-n
option below). The "Init" button displays the first image of the sequence
and sets the mouse buttons to allow the user to select image regions in a
canvas. The "Operations" button pops up a list of image processing toggle
buttons: "Canny", "Plessey Corner", "Smith Corner", "Corner Matcher",
"Image Flow", "Image Segment" and "Correlation".
To apply them to the images, create a
rectangular region-of-interest (ROI) in the current image by dragging the
left button. Select the ROI by pressing the right button in the canvas.
That creates a new process of the type specified by which toggles are lit.
"Step" now runs the new process in the ROI and displays the result.
Another "Step" repeats for the next image, and the user
can continue to the end of the sequence. At any time a new process can
be started by by selecting a new ROI, thus many processes can be running
in "virtual parallel". The only way to destroy processes is to press "Init"
again, which returns to the first image and kills all the processes.

Pressing the "Window" button changes the canvas (if there is more than one).
Press "Init"" to display the first image in the new canvas.
The "Parameters" button pops up a panel with popup buttons to invoke
panels to appear with editable strings to appear that allow the user to
change the parameters of the relevant algorithm.
The changes to not apply to processes already created, only to
those subsequently started.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-bbase-name
Set the image sequence file base-name. Default is "agv"
.TP
.I \-nnumber-of-canvases
Create the given number of canvases. Default is 1.
.TP
.I \-scanvas-size
Set the width and height of each canvas. Default is 512.
The given size should be as big as the size of each image in pixels.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR horatio(3)
